index.md, before:

---
title: Home
menu: top-nav
menu-index: 0
sidebar: about-itc
sidebarstyle: right_info
---


# Welcome to ITC!

ITC is the first international conference in networking science & practice. In 1955, ITC was founded by enthusiastic scientists and engineers willing to deploy networks in a holistic way. It served as a forum for all theoretical fundamentals and engineering practices for large-scale deployment and operation of telecommunications networks. For long time, ITC was the sole venue that brought together at large scale researchers from industry, network operators and service providers, as well as scientists from academia. These groups are the three strong traditional roots of ITC.<br/>
Since its inception, ITC witnessed the evolution of communications and networking: the influence of computer science on telecommunication, the advent of the Internet and the massive deployment of mobile communications and optics, the appearance of peer-to-peer networking and social networks, the ever increasing speed and flexibility of new communication technologies, networks, user devices, and applications, and the ever changing operation challenges arising from this development. ITC documented this evolution with contemporary measurement studies, performance analyses of new technologies, recommendations for provisioning and configuration, and greatly contributed to the methodological toolbox of network scientists.<br/>
The rootedness on solid methodological ground allowed ITC to adapt its technological focus without losing identity. Also today, ITC remains a wide and lively community of researchers and practitioners dedicated to push back the limits of knowledge in the area of networking. As such, ITC is regularly organizing events like congresses, specialist seminars and workshops to gather experts and to discuss latest changes in design, modelling, and performance evaluation of communication systems, networks, and services.


## ITC Rising Scholar Award

The goal of the ITC Rising Scholar Award  is to recognize young researchers with significant contributions to the ITC Community in the field of performance, traffic modeling and control in communication networks and networking science. There is an open call for nominations: [{{ site.domain }}/awards/rising-scholar-award.html](awards/rising-scholar-award.html)


## ITC 32 in Japan

ITC 32 will be held 22 - 24 September 2020, Osaka, Japan. In 1985, ITC 11 was held in Kyoto. After 35 years ITC goes back to Japan.


## 100 Most Frequent Errors

There are typical errors in performance evaluation which are reported and summarized here in order to prevent researchers from those pitfalls. We are looking for contributions for an open source book on "100 Most Frequent Errors in Performance Evaluation". More information: [http://100errors.info](http://100errors.info)

Commit message:

Add note about new domains

index.md, after:

---
title: Home
menu: top-nav
menu-index: 0
sidebar: about-itc
sidebarstyle: right_info
---

## Site moved

Domains of the form `itcXY.org/net/com` do no longer exist.
A list of all ITC conferences and their homepages can be found [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/congresses.html).
Alternatively, they can be accessed using `{{ site.domain }}/itcXY`.

<br/>

# Welcome to ITC!

ITC is the first international conference in networking science & practice. In 1955, ITC was founded by enthusiastic scientists and engineers willing to deploy networks in a holistic way. It served as a forum for all theoretical fundamentals and engineering practices for large-scale deployment and operation of telecommunications networks. For long time, ITC was the sole venue that brought together at large scale researchers from industry, network operators and service providers, as well as scientists from academia. These groups are the three strong traditional roots of ITC.<br/>
Since its inception, ITC witnessed the evolution of communications and networking: the influence of computer science on telecommunication, the advent of the Internet and the massive deployment of mobile communications and optics, the appearance of peer-to-peer networking and social networks, the ever increasing speed and flexibility of new communication technologies, networks, user devices, and applications, and the ever changing operation challenges arising from this development. ITC documented this evolution with contemporary measurement studies, performance analyses of new technologies, recommendations for provisioning and configuration, and greatly contributed to the methodological toolbox of network scientists.<br/>
The rootedness on solid methodological ground allowed ITC to adapt its technological focus without losing identity. Also today, ITC remains a wide and lively community of researchers and practitioners dedicated to push back the limits of knowledge in the area of networking. As such, ITC is regularly organizing events like congresses, specialist seminars and workshops to gather experts and to discuss latest changes in design, modelling, and performance evaluation of communication systems, networks, and services.


## ITC Rising Scholar Award

The goal of the ITC Rising Scholar Award  is to recognize young researchers with significant contributions to the ITC Community in the field of performance, traffic modeling and control in communication networks and networking science. There is an open call for nominations: [{{ site.domain }}/awards/rising-scholar-award.html](awards/rising-scholar-award.html)


## ITC 32 in Japan

ITC 32 will be held 22 - 24 September 2020, Osaka, Japan. In 1985, ITC 11 was held in Kyoto. After 35 years ITC goes back to Japan.


## 100 Most Frequent Errors

There are typical errors in performance evaluation which are reported and summarized here in order to prevent researchers from those pitfalls. We are looking for contributions for an open source book on "100 Most Frequent Errors in Performance Evaluation". More information: [http://100errors.info](http://100errors.info)
